good afternoon my name is Thomas Lowe
and I'm a landscape designer in Atlanta
Georgia today I will be talking about
how to sculpt a tree or a shrub you can
sculpt trees and shrubs and vines really
in many different shapes and sizes what
I've done in this design is I've started
creating a diamond pattern spall yay
it's called or tacking up a tree or vine
on a wall and the way I've started doing
that is some people will take a actual
trellis and just stick in the ground
some people want something a little more
elaborate in this case I created a
diamond pattern two summers ago so this
is the second this will be the second
summer and I created a diamond pattern
and I went ahead and measured out some
diamond shapes all consistently the same
size and then just drew the pattern with
a ruler and a pencil on this brick wall
now I went in and used some espalier
wire and you can buy it at any garden
centers hardware stores and there's
different styles and sizes this is a
very very thin you may not be able to
see it from here but it's a very thin
flexible aluminum wire that you can use
to guide trees and shrubs and different
in different shapes so the way I
attached this wire to the brick was I
went in and used a masonary drill bit
and once you have a masonry drill bit
you'll want to pick the drill bit that's
a little bit smaller than these plastic
anchors and these plastic anchors are
sold in a package at your hardware store
and the little screws actually go
into these plastic anchors so the first
step would be to create the pattern that
you want whether it's a square or circle
curves in this design happens to be a
diamond pattern and after you created
your diamond pattern go back in on the
corners of your squares or in this case
the diamond pattern and you may be able
to see right there's the actual screw
and it's in there really tight so I took
the drill and the masonry drill bit and
and never drill in the actual grout line
or the concrete line drill in the brick
then go back in with these plastic
anchors put the plastic anchor in the
hole in the corners of the square or in
this case the diamond pattern and then
just stretch this wire in the shape that
you want now after you have the pattern
created then you go back in and a plant
the shrub or tree or a vine and you're
in your choice and the first year you
may want to get a larger size so that
you can really start and really get
ahead on the shape that you want then as
as the the years go by then you go back
in and you don't just prune them with
these smaller scissor pruners but you go
back in and you prune some that won't
necessarily run even with the the
diamond patterns and the other limbs and
branches you actually just take the the
wire and run along the edge of the dimer
diamond pattern and sort of like a bread
tie you just tie these on and you hide
these down this way and then you go in
and just sort of neat and everything up
with your scissors now on some small
trees and also some upright shrubs you
can also create archways
this is just some arbor vitae shrubs
that were planted two years ago this one
has not grown a lot as a slow grower so
you can buy some larger sizes the first
year and actually even do this arched
design so you plant two of the upright
small trees together and make sure to
before you plant them that you measure
them out so that they touch to create
this arching effect what I've used to
tie those together is some inconspicuous
and really small espalier wire and you
can maybe barely see some of the wires
here and I just did this just a little
while ago and it turned out pretty well
the first time this by the end of summer
will grow together and you really won't
see this wire you may not be able to see
it too well now this design with arching
trees can be used on larger trees very
small trees smaller than this or even
trees the size you can also do a tripod
where you actually have another
evergreen tree equal distance and a
triangle form and then you would take
the third one and arch over here so you
have a tripod actually now you're when
you may experience some of the side
branchings not following suit with with
the rest of these in that case I would
recommend cutting it's always better to
cut a little extra wire in that case you
cut this wire that's by a wire and then
just simply wrap it around the rest of
the tree now you can adjust how tight or
how loose for the way the look that you
want just by the amount of wire and how
tight you tie this this wire it's very
easy to work with just always get a
little extra more than you think you
need then any excess I always use my
printing scissors or or even these hand
hand shears are really good too
and they just cut those off
and so see now you don't have any other
side branches coming out as well and
then also you can see sort of this arch
effect that's so so I hope this video
has been some help and have a great day
my name is Thomas Lowe and I'm a
landscape designer in Atlanta